I first started running Google Ads eight
years ago as a broke college student
trying to get leads for my own DJ
business. I'll never forget the feeling
of getting my first lead and turning
that into $600 cash for a kids Halloween
party that I DJed for 4 hours of work.
It was life-changing. And ever since
that moment, I have been hooked on ads
and my passion and obsession has just
grown since then. Fast forward to today,
we managed over $2 million a month in
Google AdSense for B2B SAS brands inside
of our ad agency. And throughout that
journey from, you know, spending $10 a
day as a broke college kid to fast
forward now managing over a million
dollars a month in ad spend, I've
learned a lot about what works with
Google Ads, what doesn't work. And I
really wanted to create today's video
just to impart some hard truths and
lessons upon you so that hopefully it
saves you a lot of time, headaches,
stress, and ultimately makes your
journey to profitability with Google Ads
that much easier and enjoyable for you.
If you're new to the channel, I'm Sylvia
Perez. I'm the founder of Ad Conversion.
We teach 9,000 plus B2B marketers how to
master ads, and we manage over $40
million a year in ad spend for top B2B
SAS brands. My first lesson for you is
you bid on keywords but you pay for
search terms. I can't tell you how often
people mistake this. So for example, I
might be bidding on the keyword Google
Ads courses or CRM platform or whatever
that might be. But just because I'm
bidding on that keyword doesn't mean
that's what I'm actually paying for when
somebody actually goes to Google, they
search and my ad appears and they click
on my ad. So do not distinguish and make
that mistake that keywords are the same
things that search terms. They're not.
You bid on keywords, but you ultimately
pay for the search term. So, it's super
important that you quality check your
search terms report on a weekly basis,
and you're adding in negative keywords
based on what you see so that you can
get that report as close to perfect as
possible. Of course, the looser you're
targeting, the harder it's going to
take, and the more frequency you might
need to be looking at that report. But
generally speaking, the search terms
report is how you audit the traffic
quality that you're buying from your
Google ad campaigns. The second lesson
is that positive keywords give you
visibility and negative keywords give
you focus. I think oftent times we don't
make that distinction in our mind and I
think it's a really helpful one. So if
you want more visibility then yes adding
in more keywords can help you get more
visibility but equally important if not
more important is to focus that
visibility and that's what you get
through negative keywords. So, by
looking at that search terms report and
building your negative keyword list over
time, you will continue to focus and
optimize the profitability and the
efficiency of your campaigns because
you're ultimately just spending less
money on junk. The third lesson is
you'll never profitably scale without
connecting your ads to revenue. We have
a client that was spending in the six
figures and they didn't really realize
how profitable, in this case,
unprofitable their Google ads actually
were. So in their case, they had a cost
per SQL, a cost per salesqualified lead
of around $7,000
and they were spending over 150k a month
on Google Ads. Once we connected their
ads to revenue and we understand, we
understood the downfunnel impact, we
showed them, we're like, "Hey, Google
Ads is actually getting you cost per SQL
right now of $7,000 based on your unit
economics and your conversion rates
later stage. That's not going to work.
So how about we actually cut budget
back?" Get this, right? and I had agency
asking to cut budget back. But if you
understand the true revenue impact, this
is where you can be a true strategic
partner. But we said, "Hey, how about we
spend less, we get efficient, and then
once we get efficient, we scale from
here, and we really, you know, hit the
gas again." Fast forward, we basically
did exactly that. We cut back. We went
from like 150k a month to like 30k a
month. We got really efficient where now
our cost per SQL is around $700 down
from $7,000. And now we're starting to
scale up again, but safely and doing it
in the right way where we're not being
wasteful. And we would never have this
insight if we didn't connect the things
that we're doing inside of Google Ads to
our backend. The fourth lesson is that
for every $1 you spend on ads, spend $2
on your landing pages. Another quick
example and story is we had a client
that was spending seven figures a month
on Google ads. It was crazy. And they
had a 0.8%
conversion rate across their Google ad
account for their search campaigns. 0.8.
That's horrible. And they were hyper
obsessed about traffic. And they were
like asking questions like should we use
broad match versus exac match versus
phrase match? Should we use maximize
conversion bidding versus target CPA?
And don't get me wrong, like those
things are helpful and they matter to a
certain point, but fundamentally to to
find success with Google Ads, you need
traffic and you need conversions, right?
It's 50 and it's 50. Everything inside
the Google Ads account, that's the
traffic side. Everything that happens
after they click on your ad, that's the
conversion side. And in their case,
their traffic side was pretty good. like
definitely room for opportunity, but in
terms of a scale of 1 through 10, they
were already like an eight on traffic,
whereas on the conversion side, they
were like a one or a two. It was really
bad. The landing pages were awful. And
what we had asked them to do was we
asked them to just do a simple change in
messaging in the hero section and just
run a quick test. In their case, because
they're spending so much, we were able
to learn really fast. That's the
advantage of larger budgets. And long
story short, we just made some small
tweaks on the hero section and we
improved the conversion rate from 0.8 to
1.5.
And that doesn't sound like a lot, which
but it's massive in terms of the the
downstream effects that has in terms of
improving your efficiency. And that was
one small change. And 1.5 for full
disclosure is still a terrible
conversion rate for Google Ads. So
there's a lot more work to be done. But
it just really emphasizes the point
where don't get hyper obsessed on the
traffic and completely ignore the
postclick experience. So for every $1
you spend on your ads, spend $2 on your
landing pages because if you can improve
the conversion rates of your landing
pages, it is exponential on your ability
to drive profitability and sustain a
higher cost per click. Just wanted to
take a quick second and say if you're
loving this video, you will absolutely
love our free courses over at
adconversion.com. You can sign up for
free and take our courses on Google ads,
LinkedIn ads, Reddit ads, and more. If
you don't believe me, they are seriously
free. You can check them all out here.
No lesson is longer than 10 minutes. And
if you want to go deeper on Google Ads,
I created three Google ad courses,
beginner, intermediate, advanced, all
free for you. And you can check out our
reviews from past students. We're trying
to create the go-to place in the world
to master B2B ads because when I was a
bro college student trying to figure
this stuff out, it was overwhelming. It
was confusing. And I wish something like
this existed. So if you want to find
more value, come check us out at
akenverge.com. The fifth lesson I have
for you is that Google gets rich whether
you succeed or fail. So stop blindly
trusting ad reps. I can't tell you how
many clients will just blindly trust the
recommendations of ad reps when they are
not incentivized to grow your business.
It's just factual, right? Like have you
ever received a refund from Google
because you didn't hit your performance
goals? No. like they're going to charge
you and they're going to continue to
charge you until eventually you stop
running ads on them regardless if you're
successful or not. And don't get me
wrong, like not all reps are bad. I've
had some great reps over the years. But
generally speaking, the real thing I
want to communicate is even from your
agency partner, if you're doing this
in-house from your colleagues, just
don't take things at face value and
accept them as fact. Right? One of our
sayings inside of our agency is
everything is an opinion until you have
data to back it up as a fact. So don't
just trust the reps. Seriously, like
don't just blindly apply recommendations
that you see in Google ads. At the end
of the day, like you have to think for
yourself, for your business, what makes
sense for you, what worked in the past
for you, what didn't work, right? Every
account is unique. I can tell you that
in some accounts, in some campaigns,
target CPA bidding is incredible. And
then vice versa, other ones, it sucks.
So it's like everything needs to be
personalized based on the context. So
don't just blindly accept what reps tell
you or anyone for that matter. The sixth
lesson is that rorowaz and volume are
inversely related. I don't think folks
really realize this. If you're asking
for efficiency but you're also asking
for volume, understand that those things
are diametrically opposed. Right? As you
get more efficient, it is the process of
cutting things. As you drive volume,
it's the process of adding things. So if
I want to get more efficient, that means
I need to do more with less. If I want
to drive more volume, that means I need
to drive more. I need to do more versus
doing less. They are diametrically
opposed. So if your real goal is
rorowaz, just know that it's going to
come at a cost of volume. Whereas if
your only goal is volume, it's going to
come at a cost of rorowaz. Dichotoies on
any extreme are usually bad. So you want
to find the nice in between. So, for
example, if you have a 16x rorowaz, but
you're only driving three sales a month,
then it probably doesn't make a lot of
sense to sustain a 16x rorowaz, right? I
much rather have a 3x rorowaz, but I
drive 160 sales a month, right? And for
you, you have to ask yourself, what's
the cost per opportunity? what's the
pipe to spend right in a B2B context
that I'm willing to sustain and that
level of efficiency so that I can
balance to the best of my ability volume
with efficiency of rorowass but whenever
we hear from folks like this happens all
the time where they're and I get it like
we want to eat our cake and have it too
but just know like at the end of the day
it is math right and like we have to
come down to reality of what is possible
and are we fighting a winnable fight so
just know that if you do want to focus
on efficiency it's at the expense of
volume so I highly recommend that you
try to find a nice in between and then
you really optimize from there.
Generally speaking, for most B2B ad
programs, we recommend a 3 to 5x pipe to
spend or 3 to 5x rorowaz, but on the
pipeline side for B2B, that's quite
healthy because it gives you that
flexibility of not destroying your
volume in the process, but also being
efficient with your ad spend. The
seventh lesson is overoptimizing is just
as bad as underoptimizing. I cannot tell
you how many accounts I see killed
because you're just doing too much and
you're applying too many changes at the
same time. You have to give things time
so that it can learn, it can test, it
can settle in and depending on the
platform, some platforms are more
sensitive than others. So for example,
like meta ads is extremely sensitive.
Just making budget changes large enough
can really throw off the performance of
a campaign. Thankfully, Google is a bit
more stable, but even Google needs time
to learn and adjust. So just know that,
you know, you have to remember that
things take time. So if for example,
like we had one client where if they
didn't get a certain amount of leads
every day, they would freak out. And
this wasn't really it was a not a great
experience. And we had to educate them
where we said, hey, there are
fluctuations, right? Like daytoday is
too micro of a period to look at. Same
thing with week over week. Really week
over week is a pulse check. Is there
anything broken? Anything massively
wrong here? Month over month, however,
is a much better time frame because it
gives us a large enough data sample to
look over and then understand the trends
and then make the necessary adjustments.
So just understand that overoptimizing
is bad just as underoptimizing is bad.
And I think folks usually don't think
about the overoptimizing piece enough
and they just think about the
underoptimizing piece. The eighth lesson
is that great intentions can lead to
disaster, which ties care like very well
with my last point, which is you really
want to be mindful about the changes you
make in your account. I actually learned
this lesson the hard way. One of my
first real paid media jobs outside of
college, I was running ads for this
massive fitness chain in the US, and I
was dramatically inexperienced for this
position. I don't know how I landed it,
but I did. And long story short, they
gave me a target CPA of $350. And they
gave me like 600k a month in ad spend.
Black Friday was coming up, which is
like peak season in January for for
fitness and the health and fitness
space. And I went into that so
motivated, so excited. I saw their
Google ad account and I was like, man,
this is a show. I'm going to just
go ahead and apply all of these changes
all at once and just, you know, put this
account in the right place. Fast forward
a few weeks, I make all these changes
and, you know, after making all these
changes, that first week, the CPA was as
low as it's ever been in company
history. I remember my manager coming to
me and saying, "Silio, wow, I I can't
believe you got the CPA this low. This
is incredible."
And then lo and behold, we had a few bad
days. Few bad days turned into a few bad
weeks. Fast forward, the CPA was out of
control. It got so bad it got to the
point where I'll never forget the the
head of sales walked into my manager's
office. This was in office back in, you
know, at the time. And my manager's
office was like in front of me and I was
like sitting in this cubicle and my
manager and like the head of sales are
talking. I just see the head of sales
storm into my manager's office like,
"Where are the leads?" You know, it was
awful. Long story short, like that I
called that position my master's degree
because I learned everything not to do
during that experience. And one of the
things that I learned from that
experience is that great intentions can
lead to disaster. I had the best of
intentions. You know, I I truly meant
well, but I bombed that account. I
destroyed it. I blew it up. And that is
because again, great intentions can lead
to disaster. So my big takeaway from
that to save you a lot of pain and
suffering is you want to always think
about mitigating your downside. I always
say the best advertisers think like
investors and they execute like
scientists. Investors thinks of upsides
and downside. The same is true for you
as a Google advertiser. You are
investing this money on the behalf of
your client or on the behalf of your
company depending on where you work and
you want to think like an investor. So
this is why I really want you to test
carefully and think about how can I
prove or disprove my hypothesis with the
minimum downside. So for example, maybe
you're really excited about switching
your bid strategy and you're like, you
know what, I've heard really good things
about target CPA and I want to try it
for myself. Instead of you rushing to
apply it to your most profitable
campaign, your best campaign that's
performing at the highest levels,
instead maybe take some of your lower
performing campaigns, run the bid
strategy test there. If it works, now
you can consider doing it to the main
campaign. You want to again mitigate
your downside. I'll give you another
example of this. I had a client that was
overinvesting in branded search. And
generally speaking, branded search is
not worth it. Like it doesn't drive netu
business. They were very adamant that it
was driving that new business. So what
we said was, okay, let's run an
incrementality test. So we're going to
pause branded search in a specific
country that's not as high priority and
we're going to take a note of our pre
and post performance and we're going to
see do we have less net new conversions
in their case trials. They're productled
with pausing branded search in that
country. And in their case, they were
actually the exception. They they had
less net new trials. So branded search
was actually driving a net new impact
which was surprising and had we been too
hastily especially with our our our
opinions and our you know biased views
from the past we would have cut branded
search aggressively for their main
countries which would have had
ultimately a negative impact in the case
of their business. So just remember
great intentions can lead to disaster.
Test carefully and mitigate your
downside. Lesson number nine is to
follow a checklist. Back in the day, I
used to do white label Google Ads
management and I would basically just
freelance behind the scenes. I was like
the the guy in the shadows just managing
as many Google ad accounts possible for
agencies. So, I just needed to get as
much learnings and and ultimately at
that point in my life, that's actually
after I had that experience with that
fitness chain and basically I got
unofficially fired. You know, when you
leave before you get fired, that's
basically what happened. And I was like,
man, I got to make money and I have to
make money fast. So I started just doing
white label work for ad agencies and I
started freelancing for them and I
basically got paid based on the amount
of accounts that I managed and the ad
spend that I managed. So I remember in
the beginning I was really struggling
with just managing five six clients. And
the thing that really forexed my ability
to take on more accounts was just
creating an optimization checklist. And
if you actually want our optimization
checklist, I give it away in Google Ads
102 course. And basically the same
checklist I talk about in that course is
what I used. And it just because the
problem is is like when you don't have a
checklist, I'm sure you can relate. You
go into your Google ad account and then
you just start clicking on different
things and before you know it, you look
up, it's an hour later and you're like,
man, I didn't accomplish anything. And
the cool thing about the checklist is it
keeps you disciplined and it keeps you
focused. And that is where it's it was a
game changer. So everyone in our agency
has checklists. And then we've taken it
a step further now with Sammy where
we're also automating those actions as
well. But having a checklist is really
important. Lesson number 10 is to work
smarter not harder which really speaks
to my later my previous points. But
adding on to that you really want to
think how can I work smarter in this
account not harder. So for example like
campaign structures is it really worth
it for you to create that many campaigns
and create that much segmentation or is
it better off to have fewer campaigns
more consolidated campaigns that create
less campaign overhead or operation
overhead and you can get the same result
if not better. So consolidating is
really powerful, right? Or really
thinking about, okay, do I really need
all of these keywords or what are the
most vital keyword signals that I can
focus on and then scale? And then
finally is using automation, right? Do I
need to manually check if my ads have
spent more than X without generating a
lead? No, you can use tools like Sammy
and you can set up automated workflows
to notify you in Slack so that they can
take the action on your behalf or just
notify you so that you can take that
final approval. So, working smarter, not
harder, is essential if you really want
to scale your capacity as a Google
advertiser. Hope this video was
valuable. Be sure to give this video a
thumbs up. It really helps us grow our
reach as a small channel. And subscribe
so you can be notified of future videos.
When you're ready, come check us out
over at adconversion.com and join our
community of 9,000 plus B2B marketers
mastering ads with our free courses.
Thanks so much. See you in the next one.